<h1>Folio-chat 2.0</h1><p>

Folio-chat 2.0. A secure, databaseless, minimalistic, open-source PHP chat for quick and safe message exchange between users on the same channel.</p><h2>Installation</h2><p>Deploy all the files to the webroot. Server must have PHP 7.0 or newer installed.</p>


<h2>Features</h2>

<p>-Secure conversation between channel members.</p>
<p>-Open-source code</p>
<p>-User control over channels and messages.</p>
<p>-Minimalistic hud</p>
<p>-No installation required. Can be deployed on any Apache PHP server (webroot folder).</p>

<h2>Main work flow</h2>
<p>1. User inputs a channel name to be joined. The channel name is hashed and stored to session variable.</p>
<p>2. User inputs a alias to be used. The alias is stored to session variable.</p>
<p>3. Check if the hashed channel value exists. If it doesn't, create a file using hash as a filename outside the webroot.
<p>4. Write a join message with "keep" HTML-class to the channel file.</p>
<p>5. Read the content of the channel file and print with suitable HTML-tags.</p>
<p>6. Create and time a JS-function to make AJAX-call every 1,5 seconds to connector.php file to constantly read and print the content of the channel file.</p>
<p>7. User inputs a message to be displayed on the channel. Message is appended to existing channel file with suitable HTML-tags.</p>
  
<h2>Security features</h2>

<p>-Common best practices used on user input validation, session variables and AJAX.</p>
<p>-Random token generated by server before each user interaction to prevent XSS and CSRF.</p>
<p>-Channel is generated from user input using SHA-1 one way algorithm. This way anyone who doesn't know the channel's original name, simply can't find it/access it.</p>
<p>-No databases. Any user on channel can remove messages and destroy channel and other users.</p>
<p>-Channels live outside webroot (not accessible by anyone but the Folio-chat).</p>
<p>-AJAX-call verification with constantly generated random tokens using bin2hex(openssl_random_pseudo_bytes(16)) function.</p>

<h2>Missing features</h2>
<p>If you think Folio-chat 2.0 is missing some important features or it has security issues, please let me know!</p>
